book/preliminary/index.md, before:

# Preliminary Work

We welcome all types of learners to our event, from professional software developers to people just getting started. Based on previous experience, participants gain more from our hackweeks when they arrive having a preliminary understand of some of the foundational tools of data science workflows. These skills include knowing how to:

* Navigate a [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/) environment
* Conduct file management, text editing and other basic tasks from a command line interface
* Add and commit changes in Git, and push and pull content from GitHub
* Create simple scientific workflows in Python

## {{hackweek}} Software Carpentry Session

We strongly encourage participants to review this two-day recorded fundamentals of Python and open-source workflows crash course ([Software Carpentry Schedule](swc)) in advance of the hackweek. You may choose whichever topics you'd like to brush up on or learn. Office hours in the weeks leading up the hackweek will provide an opportunity for asking questions and troubleshooting any issues you've encountered.

## Required setup

```{attention}
Please make sure to find some time to go through the below material before
the hackweek.
```

### GitHub Account

Everyone attending {{ hackweek }} will require obtaining a GitHub account.
Visit our [GitHub instruction page](github) to learn how!

### Slack Account

All of our communication throughout the hackweek will be done using the
{{ '[`{hackweek}` Slack workspace]({url})'.format(hackweek=hackweek, url=slack_workspace_url)}}.
With your invite to the hackweek, you should also have received a separate
email to join the Slack workspace. Upon accepting the invite, please take a moment to
[complete your Slack profile](https://slack.com/help/articles/204092246-Edit-your-profile).
Having your name and picture with your Slack account helps us and your peers
to identify you on Slack and builds a more personal community throughout
the week.

### JupyterHub

We will offer all tutorials within the Jupyter Hub computing environment.
Visit our [Introduction to Jupyter Hub](jupyterhub) page to learn more!

### Git

All content of the hackweek will be shared via GitHub and interacting with the
website will be done via the `git` command. Visit [Setting up the `git` command](git)
to learn how to configure that!

### EarthData Login

We'll have you download some data from NSIDC for your tutorials and projects.
Visit our [Earthdata](earthdata) page to learn how to access and Earthdata login account if you don't already have one!

## Optional setup

### Google Earth Engine Sign-Up
The ICESat-2 visualization tutorial will have an interactive component that uses Google Earth Engine (GEE) to query for 
additional data to help put ICESat-2 data into context. 
If you would like to follow this part interactively, please visit our [Earth Engine](earthengine) page to learn how to sign up, 
if you haven't already!

### Python
Dive deeper into how [Python is managed and installed](python) on the JupyterHub
and how you can install that on your personal machine.

Commit message:

updating toc (#13)
* updating toc

* adding index files

* fixing warnings for book

* updated recording and tutorial index

* updated preliminary index

* update glossary

* update glossary

* remove spaces from glossary

* push book build to external repo

* update cache date

* Revert "Temporarily remove warningiserror"

This reverts commit 27b8f90c5f391dc5421386addcc7e58d96ce2d75.

* update relative paths in preliminary index

* add preliminary files to toc

* fix toc indentation

* adding errored images

* fixing glossary and image errors

* glossaries are hard

* replacing with old glossary

Co-authored-by: Jessica Scheick <jbscheick@gmail.com>

book/preliminary/index.md, after:

# Preliminary Work

We welcome all types of learners to our cloud computing platform, from professional software developers to people just getting started. Based on previous experience, participants gain better access to all of the tools CryoCloud has to offer after they have a preliminary understand of some of the foundational tools of data science workflows. These skills include knowing how to:

* Navigate a [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/) environment
* Conduct file management, text editing and other basic tasks from a command line interface
* Add and commit changes in Git, and push and pull content from GitHub
* Create simple scientific workflows in Python

## Software Carpentry Session

We strongly encourage participants to review this two-day recorded fundamentals of Python and open-source workflows crash course ([Software Carpentry Schedule](swc)). You may choose whichever topics you'd like to brush up on or learn. Monthly office hours will also provide an opportunity for asking questions and troubleshooting any issues you encounter.

## Required setup

```{attention}
Please make sure to find some time to go through the below material before
orientation and getting onto the CryoCloud.
```

### GitHub Account

Everyone attending the CryoCloud Orientation will need to obtain a GitHub account and request access to join the CryoCloud organization and CryoCloudUser team.
Visit our [GitHub instruction page](github) to learn how!

### Slack Account

All of our communication about the CryoCloud and any issues will be done using the
{{ '[CryoCloud Slack workspace]({url})'.format(url=slack_workspace_url)}}.
With your invite to the CryoCloud, you should also have received a separate
email to join the Slack workspace. Upon accepting the invite please take a moment to update your profile picture with a fun picture of your and your info. This will help us more easily identify each other and build community.

### JupyterHub

We will offer all tutorials within the Jupyter Hub computing environment.
Visit our [Introduction to Jupyter Hub](jupyterhub) page to learn more!

### Git

All content for the CryoCloud will be shared via GitHub and interacting with the
website will be done via the `git` command. Visit [Setting up the `git` command](git)
to learn how to configure that!

### EarthData Login

To download data  from NSIDC for your tutorials and projects.
Visit our [Earthdata](earthdata) page to learn how to access and Earthdata login account if you don't already have one!

## Optional setup

### Google Earth Engine Sign-Up
The ICESat-2 visualization tutorial will have an interactive component that uses Google Earth Engine (GEE) to query for 
additional data to help put ICESat-2 data into context. 
If you would like to follow this part interactively, please visit our [Earth Engine](earthengine) page to learn how to sign up, 
if you haven't already!

### Python
Dive deeper into how [Python is managed and installed](python) on the JupyterHub
and how you can install that on your personal machine.
