book/tutorials/index.md, before:

# Tutorials

These tutorials consist of Jupyter Notebooks that can be run in our
{{ '[CryoCloud JupyterHub]({url})'.format(url=jupyterhub_url) }}
If you are joining the CryoCloud, you have access to a JupyterHub environment
with all the necessary Python software packages installed that are needed to run
through these tutorials interactively. On JupyterHub, your home directory persists
so any changes you make to the tutorials will be saved and be there for you next
time you log in.

All live tutorial recordings available via CryoCloud YouTube. Or see the table below for links to specific tutorial notebooks and recordings:


| Tutorial | Topics | Recording Link |
| ---  | --- | --- |
| [ICESat-2 and Landsat cloud access and data integration](https://github.com/CryoInTheCloud/CryoCloudWebsite/blob/main/book/tutorials/IS2_cloud_Landsat_integration.ipynb) |
| [ICESat-2 and Sentinel 2 cloud access](https://github.com/CryoInTheCloud/CryoCloudWebsite/blob/main/book/tutorials/IS2_cloud_Sentinel2_integration.ipynb) |

Commit message:

update with new tutorial content

book/tutorials/index.md, after:

# Tutorials

These tutorials consist of Jupyter Notebooks that can be run in our
{{ '[CryoCloud JupyterHub]({url})'.format(url=jupyterhub_url) }}
If you are joining the CryoCloud, you have access to a JupyterHub environment
with all the necessary Python software packages installed that are needed to run
through these tutorials interactively. On JupyterHub, your home directory persists
so any changes you make to the tutorials will be saved and be there for you next
time you log in.

All live tutorial recordings available via CryoCloud YouTube. Or see the table below for links to specific tutorial notebooks and recordings:


| Tutorial | Recording Link |
| ---  | --- |
| [NASA data access and subglacial lake investigation using ice-surface height anomalies](https://book.cryointhecloud.com/tutorials/IS2_ATL15_surface_height_anomalies/IS2_ATL15_surface_height_anomalies.html) | [Recording](https://youtu.be/HnGsCKyxkPo)
| [ICESat-2 and Landsat cloud access and data integration](https://github.com/CryoInTheCloud/CryoCloudWebsite/blob/main/book/tutorials/IS2_cloud_Landsat_integration.html) |
| [ICESat-2 and Sentinel 2 cloud access with pandas and xarray](https://github.com/CryoInTheCloud/CryoCloudWebsite/blob/main/book/tutorials/IS2_cloud_Sentinel2_integration.html) | [Recording](https://youtu.be/QNrDlwiomgc)
