book/content/Getting_Started.md, before:

# Getting started

The majority of our users will join CryoCloud through specific events, but we understand
extenuating circumstances will prevent some members of our scientific communities from being present. If you 
are part of the ICESat-2, cryosphere, or associated Earth science communities and want to join CryoCloud, please follow these instructions which 
will guide you through taking the two onboarding surveys and gaining access to CryoCloud. 

1. Fill out this short [Getting Started Survey](https://forms.gle/d8oP1gp9YikS2ixM8) to give us the 
required credentials and information to get you on the hub.


2. Once we have your survey, within the next day or two we will invite you to the CryoCloud GitHub organization and CryoCloudUsers team (you will receive an email when we do this from GitHub **at the email you have linked to your GitHub profile**). Please accept this invitation within 7 days or it will disappear and we will need to resend it. Your membership on that GitHub team provides you with access to the CryoCloud hub.


4. Open up the [CryoCloud JupyterHub](https://hub.cryointhecloud.com) to make sure it works for you. 
You will need your Github username and password to sign on. A 404 error message means you are not yet part of the GitHub org
and need to accept the invitation from GitHub first.


6. Watch the [CryoCloud training recording](https://youtu.be/bBNPuVEG4lE) to learn your way around CryoCloud.


7. Fill out the [CryoCloud Onboarding Survey](https://forms.gle/8Mr9Ykc8M7jY9fCd7). This 
Onboarding Survey will be one of the most important outcomes of the CryoCloud program to help 
us ensure we are building infrastructure and community 
practices that best meet your needs. We will gather a subset of the survey information at 6-month intervals to gauge the change that CryoCloud has produced. This survey will take ~5-10 min. Thank you for your time in filling out this survey!


8. Add yourself to our [Slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/cryospherecloud/shared_invite/zt-1isgbeuhh-q~cYYKtn_6i3PR1alGca_g) 
to join the community, get updates, and ask any questions.


9. We welcome feedback on the onboarding training in a [short anonymous feedback form](https://forms.gle/2C7mHpwnwzWa8USk9), 
which will help us to improve the training system for the next group of CryoCloud users.

Commit message:

Emain instructions for not workshop users

book/content/Getting_Started.md, after:

# Getting started

The majority of our users will join CryoCloud through specific events, but we understand
extenuating circumstances will prevent some members of our scientific communities from being present. If you 
are part of the ICESat-2, cryosphere, or associated Earth science communities and want to join CryoCloud, please follow these instructions which 
will guide you through taking the two onboarding surveys and gaining access to CryoCloud. 

**If you are NOT joining as a part of a workshop taught in CryoCloud, please send an email to cryocloud@mines.edu to let us know who you are, your research field, and why you are requesting access to CryoCloud.**

  
1. Fill out this short [Getting Started Survey](https://forms.gle/d8oP1gp9YikS2ixM8) to give us the 
required credentials and information to get you on the hub.


2. Once we have your survey, within the next day or two we will invite you to the CryoCloud GitHub organization and CryoCloudUsers team (you will receive an email when we do this from GitHub **at the email you have linked to your GitHub profile**). Please accept this invitation within 7 days or it will disappear and we will need to resend it. Your membership on that GitHub team provides you with access to the CryoCloud hub.


3. Open up the [CryoCloud JupyterHub](https://hub.cryointhecloud.com) to make sure it works for you. 
You will need your Github username and password to sign on. A 404 error message means you are not yet part of the GitHub org
and need to accept the invitation from GitHub first.


4. Watch the [CryoCloud training recording](https://youtu.be/bBNPuVEG4lE) to learn your way around CryoCloud.


5. Fill out the [CryoCloud Onboarding Survey](https://forms.gle/8Mr9Ykc8M7jY9fCd7). This 
Onboarding Survey will be one of the most important outcomes of the CryoCloud program to help 
us ensure we are building infrastructure and community 
practices that best meet your needs. We will gather a subset of the survey information at 6-month intervals to gauge the change that CryoCloud has produced. This survey will take ~5-10 min. Thank you for your time in filling out this survey!


6. Add yourself to our [Slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/cryospherecloud/shared_invite/zt-1isgbeuhh-q~cYYKtn_6i3PR1alGca_g) 
to join the community, get updates, and ask any questions.


7. We welcome feedback on the onboarding training in a [short anonymous feedback form](https://forms.gle/2C7mHpwnwzWa8USk9), 
which will help us to improve the training system for the next group of CryoCloud users.
